Add Deep Learning Blog (#23)
funcx-faas/funcx-faas.github.io: _posts/2023-05-22-BiLSTM.md

---
layout: post
author: Ritwik Anand Deshpande, University of Illinois Urbana Champaign 
title: Application of FuncX for Training and Validation of Deep Learning (BiLSTM) models
---
CS Masters students at University of Illinois used FuncX to complete a final 
project for CS598, _Deep Generative & Dyn. Models_. Ritwick Deshpanda who is
working as a graduate research assistant on the FuncX project configured a 
funcX endpoint on 
NCSA's [Delta GPU High Performance Computer](https://www.ncsa.illinois.edu/research/project-highlights/delta/).
He secured the endpoint with a Globus Group and invited his teammates to support
model training.

## Problem Statement

> Description: We have several clinical documents containing clinical notes of 

Reviewer: the change to first person here is a bit odd, since the problem statement earlier was third person

Author: Yes, two authors colliding...

doctors, in total, there are 16 different morbidities. For our application 
effectively we have developed 16 different binary classifiers for each 
morbidity. Each model has around x parameters. For each morbidity, we have 
around 500 documents, with the average length of the document being around 700 
and a word embedding vector size of 300.

Our project aimed to emulate the results of the paper. Ensembling Classical 
Machine Learning and Deep Learning Approaches for Morbidity Identification From 
Clinical Notes[[1]](#1)

## Approach

> In order to leverage funcX to run our training jobs we first had to complete the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to leverage funcX to run our training jobs, we first had to complete the
```

> required infrastructure setup. We created a funcX endpoint on the delta cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
required infrastructure setup. We created a funcX endpoint on the Delta cluster
```

> at NCSA. We created a singularity image that would be used as a running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
at NCSA. We created a singularity image to be a running
```

container to execute our jobs. Thanks to help from 

> [Matthew Feickert](https://github.com/matthewfeickert) we utilized some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Matthew Feickert](https://github.com/matthewfeickert), we utilized some
```

earlier images with the appropriate pytorch and cuda setup. We installed the
other modules using the requirements.txt file for our project. Our code was

> accordingly modified to utilize the Nvidia A100 GPUs of the delta cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
accordingly modified to utilize the Nvidia A100 GPUs of the Delta cluster.
```

> Lastly thanks to help from [Ben Galewsky](https://github.com/BenGalewsky) we 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly, thanks to help from [Ben Galewsky](https://github.com/BenGalewsky), we 
```

> were able to make our funcX endpoint public(for members of a globus group) so 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
were able to make our funcX endpoint public (for members of a Globus group) so 
```

that other members of the team could also use
the endpoint id. Since the submission of a function along with its parameters

> has a certain cap, we mounted a shared volume in the delta cluster to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
has a certain cap, we mounted a shared volume on the Delta cluster to the
```

> singularity container which contained the train data files. Our code would point

Reviewer: ```suggestion
singularity container that contained the train data files so that our code would point
```

> to these files during execution. We also specified "--nv" flag so that pytorch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to these files during execution. We also specified "--nv" flag so that PyTorch
```

> could detect cuda correctly when executing inside the container. These options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
could detect CUDA correctly when executing inside the container. These options
```

were passed as a string in the container_cmds parameter in the

> HighThroughoutExecutor library of the parsl SDK as part of the config.py used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HighThroughoutExecutor library of the Parsl SDK as part of the config.py used
```

while setting up the funcX endpoint.

Using funcX we were able to decouple and *parallelize* the whole process.

For each of the 16 BiLSTM models, we basically submitted the train_and_validate
function in parallel (leveraging the default asynchronous paradigm of parsl user
in the funcX SDK). The train_and_validate function involved initializing the

> model, splitting the data into train and validation feeding it batched data to

Reviewer: the grammar here is confusing

Author: Fixed

the model for training and performing validation to obtain the f1 micro and
macro scores, which were returned by the function.
Thus, every BiLSTM model (for 16 morbidities) was processing results in
parallel. A future was returned after submission of the function. Using
as_result_completed module of the SDK the f1 scores were obtained in the
ascending order of execution time of the models. These scores were maintained in
a CSV file for further analysis.

## Results

Originally in the paper, the whole process nearly took 40 hrs using
NVIDIA GP102, 12GB Memory 10.2
NVIDIA 440.33.01

> However, our advanced infrastructure and flexibility(where all the pytorch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, our advanced infrastructure and flexibility (where all the PyTorch
```

> However, our advanced infrastructure and flexibility(where all the pytorch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, our advanced infrastructure and flexibility (where all the PyTorch,
```

> tensorflow and other complex library dependencies were handled by using a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TensorFlow, and other complex library dependencies were handled by using a
```

---
layout: post
author: Ritwik Anand Deshpande, University of Illinois Urbana Champaign 
title: Application of FuncX for Training and Validation of Deep Learning (BiLSTM) models
---
I am a CS Masters student at University of Illinois. I, along with my class 
project team used FuncX to complete a final 
project for CS598, _Deep Generative & Dyn. Models_. I also work as a graduate 
research assistant on the FuncX project and configured a 
funcX endpoint on 
NCSA's [Delta GPU High Performance Computer](https://www.ncsa.illinois.edu/research/project-highlights/delta/).
I secured the endpoint with a Globus Group and invited my teammates to support
model training.

## Problem Statement
Description: We have several clinical documents containing clinical notes of 
doctors, in total, there are 16 different morbidities. For our application 
effectively we have developed 16 different binary classifiers for each 

> morbidity. Each model has around x parameters. For each morbidity, we have 

Reviewer: what is x?

Author: I'll find out from Ritwick

could detect CUDA correctly when executing inside the container. These options
were passed as a string in the container_cmds parameter in the
HighThroughoutExecutor library of the Parsl SDK as part of the config.py used
while setting up the funcX endpoint.

Using funcX we were able to decouple and *parallelize* the whole process.

For each of the 16 BiLSTM models, we basically submitted the train_and_validate
function in parallel (leveraging the default asynchronous paradigm of parsl user
in the funcX SDK). The train_and_validate function involved initializing the
model, splitting the data into train and validation sets and feeding batched data to
the model for training and performing validation to obtain the f1 micro and
macro scores, which were returned by the function.
Thus, every BiLSTM model (for 16 morbidities) was processing results in
parallel. A future was returned after submission of the function. Using
the as_result_completed module of the SDK, the f1 scores were obtained in the
ascending order of execution time of the models. These scores were maintained in
a CSV file for further analysis.

## Results

Originally in the paper, the whole process nearly took 40 hrs using

> NVIDIA GP102, 12GB Memory 10.2

Reviewer: the line breaks won't appear in the published blog as written here, so perhaps some punctuation is needed?
